Ted Talk Video -> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5MgBikgcWnY
----------
How long does it take to accquire a new skill?
10,000 hours?! to learn a new skill?? -> Full time job for 5 years
those hours came out from expert-level performance.
the more time you spend practicing. the better you get.
research says -> when you start, it takes you a long time. with a little bit of practice you get better. people get good with little bit of practice.

learning curve - with little bit of practice you get good really quick. at certain point you hit a plateu 
his reserach says 20 hours. you can go from learning nothing.

4 simple steps to rapid skill acquisition
1. Deconstruct the skill - decide what you exactly want to do. look into the skill and break it down into small peices. the more you break it down, the more you decide, what are the parts of the skill that will get to what you want. you can practice that first. practice most importanmt thing first will improve

2. Learn enough to self-correct. get some resoruces. learn just enough that you can practice and self correct as you practice.

3. Remove practice barriers. IMPORTANT. distraction, television, internet. things that distract you. the more you remove. the more liekly you are to sit down

4. Practice at least 20 hours. Frustration barrier.
talks about instrument

-----



Ops Learning Assignment
----------

Goal: Learn infrastructure fundamentals, including parts of a computer, operating systems, the internet, networking, and cloud.
Source: Google IT Certification Videos -> https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL2jykFOD1AWZlfwMPcVKwaFrRXbqObI3U
Assignment: ~100 mins/ 1 hr 45 mins of video below

What is IT?
Information Technology has transformed your life in ways you dont realize. IT lets us communicate massive amounts of information to people/organization across the world in a blink of eye.
IT is the use of digital technology, like computers and the internet, to store  and process data into useful information.
Network engineers, hardware technicnas, desktop personel.
IT is really about the people.

Computing Fundamentals (CPU, Memory, Storage) | Videos 13-20 | ~30 mins
vid 013
talks about different types of people who work at google. history background
don't need a traditional path to have success in IT.
benefit of IT is .. at the end people want to know you can fix the problem.
As long as you can get to a point where you can feel comfortable working with users, fixing their problems, and suppoorting them. you will be viable in IT.

vid 014
history of computer. Module introduction
talks about his first computer. tinkering with the machine.
first few job experiences. communicating with customers.
those experiences helped shaped his career
in IT hardware is an essential topic to understand.

vid 015
Introduction to computer Hardware
peaking whats inside a computer
Desktop keyboard mouse monitor
physical compents -> hardware.
back of computer - power outlet, common ports
Ports are connection points that we can connect devices to that extend the functionality of our computer

Port to connect to monitor. Few ports to plug keyboard and mouse
Network connection port. Basic ports to browse internet.
laptop. same ports built in monitor. keyboard. physical compnets that are hiddent for portability

Opens up desktop.
CPU - Central Processing Unit. Covered by heatskin
CPU is the brain of our computer. It does all the calculations and data processing. Communcaites heavy with the RAM.

RAM - Random access Memory.  Our computers short term memeory. used to store data temporarily. typing something to chat in a word processor. information is stored in ram.

Store anything in long term memory is stored in the harddrive. Holds  all of our data, which indlucdes music, games, applications.

The large slab is the MOBO- Motherboard. The foundation. Holds everything in place and lets our computer communcatie with each other.
MOBO- The body of the compuer that connects all peices together. 

Powersupply converts power from wall outlet to a form that our computer can uses.
Mobile phone uses a smaller version of the hardware in a desktop.

Important to know because it can help in trouble shooting.

vid 016
Programs and Hardware.
Our computer can only communciate in binary. 0 and 1s.
Computer have built in translate.
Programs are instructions that tell the computer what to do.
Programs like cooking recieps.
We want to make a ton of food. hire cheif
faster cheif works. the more food she will prepare.
cheif is CPU. she processes the recipets and makes the food.
cheif works so fast that she can cook faster than read

take copies of receipt and put into ram. stores info in a locotion our CPU can access faster than the harddrive. 
make sandwhich. give one line at a time. our chief can only communciate in 1s and 0s. our cpu is taking instructions and executing them. Binary.
External Data Bus (EDB). Row of wires that interconnect our parts of our computer.
Voltage in wire. its on
no voltage in wire means it off

EDB comesi n different sizes 8 bit 16 bit 32 and 64 bites.
1 byte at a time.

Registers let us store data our CPU works with.
If the CPU wants to add two numbers. One number store in register A. Other in B. Result is stored in register C.
Memory controller Chip (MCC) - A BRIDGE BETWEETN CPU and the RAM.
CPU talks to MCC - grabs the data and sends it to EDB.
Address Buss connects CPU to MCC and sends over location of DATA.
THE MCC takes the address and looks for the data in ram. Data is then sent over to EDB.

CPU uses cache. Cache is smaller than ram and lets us store data that we use often and lets us quickly reference it.
Ram is easy to get into but takes time to get out
Cache is uses to store recently or frequently stored data
3 different chache levels in a CPU
L1, L2, L3
L1 is smallest cache

CPU has internal clock that keeps everything in sync
Clockwire. when you send or receive data it sends voltage to clockwire to know it can start doing calculations
Every Tic, the cpu does one cycle of operations.
when you send voltage to clock wire, its refereded to clock cycle
if you have lots of data you need to process in a command. need to run lots of clock cycle

CPU lbabled 3.4ghz? this refers to  thje clock speed of the CPU. max number of clock cylces that it cna handle in a certain time period. 
3.5 gigahjertz is 3.5 billion cycles per cycle.

Just because it says that, doesnt mean it does. It can exceed that number.
You can overclock it. to exceed that number
increases rate of CPU clock cycle in order to perfom more task.

used to increase performnce in low end CPUs.
cons - potentional overheat pc
Cons of overclocking CPU
reduce lifespan
increase heat generation
increase power consumption
void warranty

vid 017
CPU
if someone ask you to do a crazy math problem would you do it or use calculator?
CPU processes binary.
translation book is Instruction set 
Instruction set is a list of instructions our CPU can use
add sub 

Every thing is broken down into our instruction set
each brand is different. they perform the same functions

Popular CPU like Intel AMD Qualcom.
intel core i7. rYZEN 5

When you select your CPU, it has to be comptabilie with your motherboard.
Different sockets on motherboards.
LGA Land Grid Array - Pins that stick out the mother board. socket size varry
Pin Grid Array - Pins are located on the CPU itself.
CPU and MOBO socket matches. manfactur website list what are supoprted

When installing, you need to include heatsink to keep the cpu cool. the heatsink takes heat from CPU and disepates it.

CPUs will have 32bit or 64 bit architecutre. 8 bits in binary. 32 or 64
cpu with 32 bit or 64 bit  just list how much data it can offically handle.
Just make sure its compatbile.

vid 018
RAM computer short term memory.
use ram to access quickly. data changes. isnt permanten. almost all ram is volitle. once power off machine, the data is cleared.
Our computer compirsed of programs. When wanting to run of it, you need to make a copy of it in RAM so our computer can run it.
New phone with 16gb of ram, it can run up to 16gbs of programs. 
RAM found in most computers is DRAM.
DRAM - Dynamic random-access memory. each bit is stored in a microscopic capacitor.
its either charged or discharged. 

different types of m,emeory sticks that DRAM chips can be put on. DIMM sticks is  Dual inline memoery module have sizes of pin on them.

SDRAM - Synchronus DRAM - tHIS RAM is synced to our system clock speed allowing quicker prcoessing of data.
in most systems today we use
Double Data Rate SDRAM or DDR SDRAM
DDR. DDR1 ddr2 DDR3 and DDR4
DDR is faster and takes up less power and hhas larger capicty of earlier SDRAM
ddr4 is fastest ram type.
any ram needs compatible mobo.

vid 019
Motherboards
foundation that holds computer together
allows us to expand our computers functionality by adding expansion cards
routers power to powr supply
allow different parts of computer to communcatie with each other.

Every MOBO has few key charactiersics
Chipset. How compontents talk to each other. two chips 
North Bridge that interconnects ram and video cards
south bridge maintains our I/O, harddrives
some merdern cpu, north bridge is added into cpu. so no seperate ones.
chipset is key . allows us to manage data between cpu, ram peripherals
peripherals - mouse keyboard

mobo has another key charactiersics
expansion slots gives us the ability to increase the functionality of our computer
upgrade graphic cards. use expansion slot
PCI Express Peripheral component interconnect express
PCIE looks like a slot in mobo
pcie base looks liek s a smaller circuit board
Form factor. different sizes of mobo.  determine the amoujnt of stuff we can put in it
ATX - Advanced Technology eXtended. most common
ITX infromation technology extended - much smaller
form factor is important because if u want to add expansion slots, u need space


vid 020
Storage
Data sizes. a bit
a bit stores 1 binary digital
a byte has 8 bits. it can hold number letter of symbol
1 kilobyte 1024 bytes.

500gb - a 3mb music file. 165000 music files.
issue and lost all data?
back up data to be saved. copy or save data somewhere else.
Hard Disk Drive HDD. Uses spinning platter and mechanical arm to read nad write information. speed that platter rotate, allows us to read and write faster
RPM Revolution per minute. higher RPM = faster.
HDD more damage because a lot of moving parts
SSD solid state drive. they have no moving parts. usb sticks are similar. info stored in microchips.
why everyone doesnt use SSD
HDD is more affordable but more prone to damage
SSD is less risky to lose data but more expensive
hybrid HDD and SSD drives out there.

Interfaces that our harddrive use to connect to our systems
ATA interfaces. Serial ATA is common. SATA
This uses one cable to data transfERS
Sata drives are hot swapable
Dont need to turn off PC to plug in sata drive.
they move data faster with efficent cables.

interface couldnt keep up with fast SSD in market
another interface that was created NVM express 
Drive is added as an expansion slot.


Operating Systems | Videos 26-35 | ~40 mins
vid 026
module intro
As an IT support. its important to understand how OS works so you can help others accomplish their task.

vid 027
What is an Operating SysteM? - The whole package that manages our computers resources and lets us interact with it
there are 2 main parts. The Kernal and User space
Kernal - Process Manager, Memory Manager, File Manager, I/O Manager.
User Space - Application
The kernal main core that talks to hardware and manage system resources.
We mainly interact with the userspace.
Userpace is everything outside the kernal.
Windows Used mostly in business and consumer space (PC)
Mac USED IN THE CONSUMER space. 
Linux open source operating system. software free to share modify and distrubte. lINUX is used in business of infrastructure and cosumer.
mANY DIFFERENT packages of linux. Ubutnu, Debian, Redhat.
Chrome OS and Android OS use linux kernal
Mobile Phone OS is quickly overtaking desktop. 

Kernal does file manage and Storage.
File management
Process Management. We have many programs to run on system. to run them. manage order they run it, how many resources  and how long. kernal does all the work.
Memory Management - kernal opitizes memeory usage and make sure applications have enough memory to run.
I/O Management anything that can give us input or output of data.


vid 028
Files and File Systems
Kernal handles file storage and file systems on machine.
File Data
Metadata
File system - WHEN new hard disk. need to erase and config the disk so OS can read and write data. Some file system support large or small amounts of data. major OS have their own unique file system. 

windows have NTFS. ReFS is bneing developed by  
ReFS designed to optimize data availability, efficiently manage scalability for large amounts of data, and to ensure data integrity through so-called “resilience” to file corruption.

Mac OS default file system is HFS+. Journaled so helps save disk date in case failure.
Linux. Different distribution uses different file system. Standard is ext4. compatible with other ones.

We write data to hard drive in the form of data blocks. When saved to hard disk, doesnt always sit in one piece. broken into many peices.
Block storage improves faster handling of data because the data isnt stored as on e long pieace. accessed faster.

Keep meta data that contains info on file like Filke size, date modiified, file type, owner, etc. Meta data tells us everyhting aboujt file.
extension is appended part of fle name that tells us what file it is. .jpg  .mp3

vid 029
Process Management
A process is a program that is executing.
a pROGRAM is an applcation that we can run.
When want to run a program, we have to dedicate ram and CPU usuage. want to run multiple program. kernal has to manage resources. Kernal doesnt dedicate all resource to one process.
has multiple processes. when new application, create a new process. has to have hardware resources.
Time slice is a very short internval of time that gets allocated to a process for CPU execution.
if CPU is slow and cpu resources is maxed. one process is taking up more time slice than others. next process cant be executed. too many proceses and cpu cant keep up with it.
kernal creats processes, efficiently schedules them and manages how proceses are terminated.

vid 030
Memory management - when processes are run it needs to take up space in memeory so comp can read and load quickly
memeory comes in smaller quantities. so to give more memeory we use.
virtual memoery is comnbination of hard drive spoace nad ram that acts like memoper that our proceesses can use.
When we execute process, take data of program in chunks called pages. pages are stored in virtual memoery. to read and execute pages they have to be sent to ram or HDD. 
Large applications it would be wasteful to store entire program in ram. good if it was small.
when applications slow down, in menu u dont normally use, comp had to load those pages for that menu from virtual memeory into ram.

We  dont need to use all features, so why load it up?
When we store the virutal memoery on Hard dRIVE. called the allocated space a swap space. kernal takes care all of it.

vid 031
I/O Management.
I/O devices devices that perfom input and output. monitor keyboard mice hard disk drive, speaker
these io devices are managed by kernal. kernal need to load up drivers that are used to recongize these different hjardware
kernal manages  transfer of data in and out of devices.
kernal handles all intercommunciation between different devices.
finds most efficent method of trasnfer.
when troubleshooting or solving a problem  wit h a mchine, its some sort of hardware resource deficiency.
to much input? or too much output, it blockes other data from being recieved or sent.


vid 032
Interacting with the OS User Space
talk about how users interact with OS
User space how users interact.
two ways to inteact with OS. with Shell or GUI(Graphical user interacte)
command line interace CLI interface
GUI is a visual way to intearct with intercae.
Shell is a program that interprets text commands and send them to the OS to execute.
Power users are over average computer users.
Linux. u need to knwo commands because most linux machines are accessed remotely.
Bash
Bourne again shell in linux
Powershell
some task can only be complted in shell
system application login application, system settings.


vid 033
Logs files that record system evnets on our computer. just like a system diary
used to help find out something when it happens.

vid 034
The boot process
learn how OS start ups.
msot OS boot process follow a pattern
Power on ->
Bios/Uefi IS A LOW LEVEL software that initilizes our computers hard ware to make sure everyhing is working
Power on -> Bios POST (pOWER on self test)
POst prefroms  series of diagnoistic test to make sure computer is on working process

Power on -> Bios -> Boot Device
depending on BIOS config, a boot device is slected. devices that are attached to system are congiured in certain order. bootloader is a small program that loads the operating system
once comp find bootlader. execute program. that eventually loads OS and Kernal is loaded. Drivers  are loaded. System and Userspce items are loaded.  which allows us to interact

vid 035
Choosing an Operating System
decide which to isntall? decision already made? organization that need a service that requires the use of a speicific OS?
find out what software that needs to be ran. software is cross platform.
what hardware will be use? Most OS support common hardware.
Different CPU architecture. 32bit and 64bit. OS is ooptimized for that . make sure CPU and OS are comptabile.
computers may come installed with OS
some OS sell OS in disk form.


The Internet and Networking | Videos 41-45  | ~20 mins
vid 041

vid 042

vid 043

vid 044

vid 045


The Cloud | Video 157 | 5-15 mins
vid 157


Additional Video: AWS on Cloud Computing -> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dH0yz-Osy54
Additional Video: Benefits of Cloud Computing -> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KFtXnCmYx3s

-----



Dev Learning Assignment
----------

Goal: Learn Python
Source: Mosh’s Programming Tutorial -> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rfscVS0vtbw
Assignment: Watch for first 4:10 hrs -> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_uQrJ0TkZlc

-----



Bonus Material
----------

Version control helps you 
1) track changes
2) show the world what you’re working on


The video below (roughly an hour long) will teach you the basics of version control -> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RGOj5yH7evk
-----


